W-14556573-Added Setup guide for Salesforce (#59)
mulesoft/docs-accelerators: retail/2.7/modules/ROOT/pages/sfdc-customization-guide.adoc

The following provides guidance on the custom fields that need to be created for the customer profile and sales order sync use cases in order to function end-to-end.

== Fields to be updated

The Order object needs to be updated for the following fields for the use case:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field Name | Type | Updated Values
| Type | Picklist | ADD_ON, CANCELLATION, INITIAL, JOURNAL, RENEWAL, RETURN, SUBSCRIPTION, UPGRADE
| Status | Picklist | CANCELLED, CREATED, CONFIRMED, DELIVERED, IN_CART, IN_TRANSIT, INVOICED, LOST, PARTIALLY_SHIPPED, PICKUP_AVAILABLE, PROCESSING, REJECTED, RETURNED
|===

== Custom Objects

The following objects must be created

|===
| Salesforce Object Name | Singular Label | Plural Label

|Managed_External_Id
|Managed External Identifier
|Managed External Identifiers
|===

=== Create Custom Objects Manually

> 1. In your Salesforce org, click Setup and select Setup to open Setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your Salesforce org, click Setup, and then select Setup to open Setup.
```

2. Click the Object Manager tab. If you don’t see it, enter Object Manager in the Quick Find box.

> 3. On the Object Manager Object Manager page, click Create | Custom Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the Object Manager page, click Create | Custom Object.
```

4. For Label, enter the value in `Singular Label`.
5. For Plural Label, enter the value in `Plural Label`.
6. Leave the rest of the values as default and click Save.

> === Create Custom Object via Apex script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create a Custom Object via Apex script
```

> An Apex class called `CustomObjectUtility` and `MetadataService` are used to create custom object programmatically. The source can be found on [Common Resources project](https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/997d5e99-287f-4f68-bc95-ed435d7c5797/accelerator-common-resources-src) and  [MetadataService](https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls) respectively. Download the project and follow the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Apex class called `CustomObjectUtility` and `MetadataService` are used to create a custom object programmatically. The source can be found on https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/997d5e99-287f-4f68-bc95-ed435d7c5797/accelerator-common-resources-src[Common Resources project] and https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls[MetadataService] respectively. Download the project and follow the steps below.
```

> 1. Click on Salesforce Setup icon and select `Developer Console` to open a new console window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the Salesforce Setup icon and select `Developer Console` to open a new console window
```

> 1. Go to `File -> New -> Apex class` and create a new class named `CustomObjectUtility`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `CustomObjectUtility`.
```

> 1. Copy the code from `accel-common-resources/salesforce/CustomObjectUtility.apxc` to the script editor

Reviewer: Please add a period at the end of each sentence in this section that is missing one.

> 1. Select the `File -> Save` menu option to compile and save the class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class
```

> 1. Go to `File -> New -> Apex class` and create a new class named `MetadataService`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `MetadataService`
```

1. Copy the code from `https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls` to the script editor

> 1. Select the `File -> Save` menu option to compile and save the class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class
```

> 1. Select `Debug -> Open Execute Anonymous Window`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select `Debug > Open Execute Anonymous Window`
```

1. Copy and paste the contents of `/src/test/resources/scripts/CreateCustomObjects.txt` into the window.

> 1. Enable the `Open Log` option and click the **Execute** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable the `Open Log` option, and then click the *Execute* button.
```

> Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show just the results of each create request. Verify that all fields have been successfully created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show only the results of each create request. Verify that all fields have been created successfully.
```

== Custom Fields

The following fields must be created in the corresponding objects.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> | Salesforce Object | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique* | ExternalId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Salesforce Object | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique | ExternalId
```

| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Global Mailing Address ID
| Global_MailingAddress_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Global Mobile Number ID
| Global_MobileNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Global Party ID
| Global_Party_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Global Phone Number ID
| Global_PhoneNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Global Shipping Address ID
| Global_ShippingAddress_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Account
| Customer Status
| Customer_Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| External Id
| External_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| External Id Type
| External_Id_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| Object Id
| Object_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| Object Type
| Object_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| Status
| Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N

| Managed_External_Id__c
| Status Last Changed
| Status_Last_Changed
| Date/Time
| -
| N
| N

| Contact
| Global_Individual_Id
| Global_Individual_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Order
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

| Product2
| Global_Product_Id
| Global_Product_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y

|===

> *Unique fields should be case-sensitive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
Unique fields should be case-sensitive.
```

=== Create via Apex Script

An Apex class called `CustomFieldUtility` can be used to create custom fields programmatically. The source for this class can be found in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src[Accelerator Common Resources^] project. Download this project and follow the steps below.

> . Click on Salesforce Setup icon and select `Developer Console` to open a new console window

Reviewer: Please add a period at the end of each sentence that is missing one in all of the following sections. Please also see the above edits and apply them to the similar sentences below.

. Select the `+File -> Save+` menu option to compile and save the class
. Select `+Debug -> Open Execute Anonymous Window+`
. Copy and paste the contents of `accel-common-resources/salesforce/CreateCustomFields.txt` into the window.
. Enable the `Open Log` option and click the *Execute* button.

Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show just the results of each create request. Verify that all fields have been successfully created.

=== Create Manually via Salesforce

To create each of these custom fields and enable visibility for them on page layouts:

. Click the Salesforce Setup icon.
. Select the `Object Manager` tab from the Setup home page.
. Find and select the target Salesforce object.
. Select the `Fields & Relationships` page.
. Click the *New* button and create the field as specified above.
. Once the field has been created, click the `Set Field-Level Security` button (or do these steps later - see below).
. Enable for desired profile, or tick the checkbox next to `Visible` to enable visibility for the desired profile(s).

Repeat these steps for each custom field in the above list.

> TIP: Instead of adjusting permissions for each field as you go, if you are only making them available to one or two profiles it may be more efficient to go to the `+Users -> Profiles -> {profile} -> Object Settings+` for each object and adjust the permissions for multiple fields at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
Instead of adjusting permissions for each field as you go, if you are only making them available to one or two profiles, then it may be more efficient to go to `Users > Profiles > {profile} > Object Settings` for each object and adjust the permissions for multiple fields at once.
```

. Click the Salesforce Setup icon.
. Navigate to `+Apps -> App Manager+`.
. Select `New Connected App`.
. Enter Connected App Name: `MuleSoft Accelerator`, API Name: `MuleSoft_Accelerator` and set your email address.
. In the `API (Enable OAuth Settings)` section, check the box `Enable OAuth Settings`.
. Set the callback URL `+http://localhost+`.
. From the `Selected OAuth Scopes` list, select `Full access (full)`.
. Click *Save* and then *Continue*.
. Click the *Manage* button to view details for the new connected app.
. Click the *Edit Policies* button.
. In the `OAuth Policies` section, for `Permitted Users` select `All users may self-authorize`.
. For `IP Relaxation`, select the `Relax IP restrictions` option.
. Click *Save*.

You now need to copy the `Consumer Key` and `Consumer Secret` values for use in configuring Mule application deployments. More specifically, these must be supplied as the values for the `sfdc.fsc.client-id` and `sfdc.fsc.client-secret` properties found in the `Clouhub-RCG-DEV` profile in your Maven `settings.xml` file.

. On the Setup Home page, navigate to `+Apps -> App Manager+`.

> . Locate your new connected app and choose `View` from the actions dropdown for that item (last column on the right).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate your new connected app and choose *View* from the actions dropdown for that item.
```

> . Under the `API (Enable OAuth Settings)` section, click the *Manage Consumer Details* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *API (Enable OAuth Settings)* section, click the *Manage Consumer Details* button.
```

. Verify your identity by entering the verification code that was emailed to you.

> . Copy the key and secret values and update your `settings.xml` file as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy the key and secret values and update your `settings.xml` file as described previously.
```

Download the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src[Accelerator Common Resources project^] for a sample `settings.xml` file that can be used as a starting point.

> == Generating Security Token for Service Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Generating a Security Token for the Service Account
```

A token needs to be generated for the service account used by the Mule applications in order to connect to the FSC instance.

> . Login to Salesforce as the Service Account User (the account that will be used by the Mule applications for connecting to Salesforce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Salesforce as the Service Account User, which is the account that will be used by the Mule applications to connect to Salesforce).
```

> . Click the Username icon in the top right corner and select `Settings` from the menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the Username icon and select *Settings* from the menu.
```

> . Select `+My Personal Information -> Reset My Security Token+` (if not found, see note below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select `My Personal Information > Reset My Security Token`. If you cannot find this, see the note at the end of these steps.
```

. Click *Reset Security Token*.
. Check the email inbox for an email from Salesforce with the new security token.

> NOTE: If the option to reset your security token is not available, it is likely that one or more Login IP Ranges are in effect. These can be temporarily removed from the settings page of the profile assigned to the service account user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
If the option to reset your security token is not available, it is likely that one or more Login IP Ranges are in effect. These can be temporarily removed from the settings page of the profile assigned to the service account user.
```

== Contact Point Mappings

The following table lists the conditions used to assign ContactPoints in Salesforce:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| CIM PartyRoleType - PartyType | Salesforce Object - Record Type | Condition | Action in Salesforce | Comments

| Customer - Individual
| Account - PersonAccounts
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedForBilling` set as `false` and `isUsedForShipping` set as `false`
| Assign Address as `PersonMailingAddress`
| If multiple addresses match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none set the first one will be used

| Customer - Individual
| Account - PersonAccounts
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedForBilling` set as `true`
| Assign Address as `BillingAddress`
|

| Customer - Individual
| Account - PersonAccounts
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedForShipping` set as `true`
| Assign Address as `ShippingAddress`
|

| Customer - Individual
| Account - PersonAccounts
| ContactPointPhone with `isSMSCapable` set as `false`
| Assign Phone Number as `Phone`

> | If multiple phones match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none set the first one will be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| If multiple phones match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none of them match this condition, then the first one is used
```

| Customer - Individual
| Account - PersonAccounts
| ContactPointPhone with `isSMSCapable` set as `true`
| Assign Phone Number as `PersonMobilePhone`]
|

| Customer - Organization
| Account - Account
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedForBilling` set as `true`
| Assign Address as `BillingAddress`

> | If multiple addresses match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none set the first one will be used

Reviewer: Please update this sentence and the rest of them with the suggestion above

| Customer - Organization
| Account - Account
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedForBilling` set as `true`
| Assign Address as `BillingAddress`
| If multiple addresses match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none set the first one will be used

| Customer - Organization
| Account - Account
| ContactPointAddress with `isUsedFoShipping` set as `true`
| Assign Address as `ShippingAddress`
|

| Customer - Organization
| Account - Account
| ContactPointPhone with `isFaxCapable` set as `false`
| Assign Phone Number as `Phone`
| If multiple phones match this condition, the one with primaryFlag set to true is used; if none set the first one will be used

| Customer - Organization
| Account - Account
| ContactPointPhone with `isFaxCapable` set as `true`
| Assign Phone Number as `Fax`
|
|===

*The default value for all flags is `false`.

== Household Record Type

> The following record type must be enabled if CIM Customer with Party as `Household` needs to be supported, otherwise this step can be ignored.

Reviewer: The wording "if CIM Customer with Party" is confusing. Please review for clarity.

|===
| Salesforce Object | Record Type

| Account
| Household
|===

> To enable the `Household` record type in `Account` object, follow the below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the `Household` record type in the `Account` object, follow these steps:
```

. Click the Salesforce Setup icon.
. Navigate to `+Users -> Profiles+`.
. Select the target profile for the service account user.
. Navigate to `+Object Settings -> Accounts+` and click the *Edit* button.
. Under `Record Types and Page Layout Assignments` check the `Household` record type.
. Click the *Save* button.

== Create Platform Events and Apex Triggers

> The following Platform Event Objects and Apex Triggers must be created in order to capture updates from Salesforce. The scripts to create these Apex Triggers and add fields to Platform Event Objects are located in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources] project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Platform Event Objects and Apex Triggers must be created in order to capture updates from Salesforce. The scripts to create these Apex Triggers and add fields to Platform Event Objects are located in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources^] project.
```

|===
| Salesforce Object | Salesforce Platform Event Object | Salesforce Platform Event API Name | Apex Trigger Name

| Account
| Account
| Account__e
| AccountEventsPub
|===

=== Create Platform Event Object

> This implementation requires creation of Platform Events in Salesforce. To create a Platform Event Object following the below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation requires `Platform Events` to be created in Salesforce. Follow these steps to create a `Platform Event` object:
```

> . Login to Salesforce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Salesforce.
```

> . Click Setup to search for Platform Events in Quick Find Box. Platform Events Page under Integrations section appears with list of available Platform Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Setup* and search for "Platform Events" in the *Quick Find* box. The Platform Events page shows with a list of available Platform Events.
```

> . Click *New Platform Event* button to create an Object and enter Platform Information Details fields like Label, Plural Label and Object with Object Name and Event API Names as above table. Click Save. Repeat this step for creating multiple Salesforce Platform Event Objects as mentioned in the above table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *New Platform Event* button to create an Object. Complete the *Platform Information Details* fields, including *Label*, *Plural Label*, *Object with Object Name*, and *Event API Names* as indicated in the previous table.
. Click *Save*.

Repeat these steps to create additional Salesforce Platform Event objects as indicated in the previous table.
```

> . To add Custom Fields & RelationShips to Platform Event Definitions, run the utility scripts (`CreatePlatformEventsCustomFields.txt`) available in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources^] under the `/salesforce` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To add Custom Fields & RelationShips to Platform Event Definitions, run the utility scripts (`CreatePlatformEventsCustomFields.txt`) available in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources^] in the `/salesforce` folder.
```

=== Create Apex Triggers

> Follow the below steps to create the Apex Triggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create the Apex Triggers:
```

> . Login to Salesforce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Salesforce.
```

> . Click Setup to search for Object Manager in Quick Find Box.

Reviewer: Please see my comments above to revise this.

> . Search for the Salesforce Object. A page appears with Details of the Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for the Salesforce object. This opens a page that shows the details of the object.
```

> . Click Triggers unders the Details section to see list of available triggers on the Object. Click New.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Triggers* in the Details section to view a list of available triggers for the object.
. Click *New*.
```

> . Copy the Trigger Script code searching by Apex Trigger Name (mentioned in the above table for the SalesforceObject) in CreateApexTriggers.txt of https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources] to the script editor. CreateApexTriggers.txt file is available under /salesforce folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for the Apex Trigger name, which is indicated in the previous table. Copy the Trigger Script code in `CreateApexTriggers.txt` from the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/accelerator-common-resources-src/[Accelerator Common Resources] page and paste it into the script editor. The `CreateApexTriggers.txt` file is located in the `/salesforce` folder.
```

> . Obtain the `LastModifiedById` and `RecordTypeId` (if it exists) by running the queries mentioned in the trigger from Developer Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Obtain the `LastModifiedById` and `RecordTypeId` (if it exists) by running the queries mentioned in the trigger from the Developer Console.
```

> . Replace the values in the script and Save the trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Replace the values in the script and save the trigger.
```

> . Click Save and ensure isActive checkbox is ticked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Save* and ensure the *isActive* checkbox is checked.
```

> . Repeat the steps for all the Salesforce objects in the above table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Repeat these steps for each Salesforce object in the previous table.
```

=== Additional Notes

> * All the Apex Triggers created above filters records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}`. This is to filter out updates done by the Salesforce Customers and Salesforce Financial System APIs to avoid cyclical updates. This can be obtained by running the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each of the Apex Triggers that are created from the table filter records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}`. This is done to avoid cyclical updates performed by the Salesforce Customers API and Salesforce Financial System API. This can be obtained by running the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console.
```

> * The Apex Trigger AccountEventsPub also filter records based on record type ID. The record type ID can be obtained by running the query `SELECT Id,Name FROM RecordType where Name='Household' and sObjectType='Account'` in the Developer Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Apex Trigger `AccountEventsPub` also filters records based on record type ID. The record type ID can be obtained by running the query `SELECT Id,Name FROM RecordType where Name='Household' and 'sObjectType='Account'` in the Developer Console.
```

> The following provides guidance on the custom fields that need to be created for the customer profile and sales order sync use cases in order to function end-to-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides instruction on creating the custom fields that are required in order to enable the customer profile and sales order sync use cases to function end-to-end.
```

> == Fields to be updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Fields to Be Updated
```

The Order object needs to be updated for the following fields for the use case:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field Name | Type | Updated Values
| Type | Picklist | ADD_ON, CANCELLATION, INITIAL, JOURNAL, RENEWAL, RETURN, SUBSCRIPTION, UPGRADE
| Status | Picklist | CANCELLED, CREATED, CONFIRMED, DELIVERED, IN_CART, IN_TRANSIT, INVOICED, LOST, PARTIALLY_SHIPPED, PICKUP_AVAILABLE, PROCESSING, REJECTED, RETURNED
|===

== Custom Objects

The following objects must be created

|===
| Salesforce Object Name | Singular Label | Plural Label

|Managed_External_Id
|Managed External Identifier
|Managed External Identifiers
|===

=== Create Custom Objects Manually

1. In your Salesforce org, click Setup, and then select Setup to open Setup.
2. Click the Object Manager tab. If you don’t see it, enter Object Manager in the Quick Find box.
3. On the Object Manager page, click Create | Custom Object.
4. For Label, enter the value in `Singular Label`.
5. For Plural Label, enter the value in `Plural Label`.
6. Leave the rest of the values as default and click Save.

> === Create a Custom Object via Apex script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create a Custom Object via Apex Script
```
